# CS-250-Software-Development-Lifecycle
Projects from my CS-250 course

# How do I interpret user needs and implement them into a program? How does creating “user stories” help with this?
I interpreted user needs by collecting user stories from the client and users before beginning the inital sprint. This is done by interviewing stakeholders, and asking open-ended questions to uncover pain points and goals. These can also be turned into functional and nonfunctional requirements. We can then creat a product backlog, and start prioritizing user stories, as this was key in implementing user needs into a program. User stories helped with this tremendously! By gathering these requirements from users, I was able to then use these user stories to create a product backlog that we then begun to prioritize these stories. These stories can help guide development, inivte feedback and refinement, promote collaboration, and humanize the project. 

# How do I approach developing programs? What Agile processes do I hope to incorporate into my future development work?
When developing a program the approach that I like to take is build small, test often. I like to keep the code clean and maintainable. I also enjoy object-oriented programming visual design tools. I like to make/use UML diagrams, use case diagrams, class diagrams, sequence diagrams, activity diagrams, and flowcharts. I think prepping for your code is very important to the functionality and development of your program. Using visual tools as well as pseudocode can be very benefical. In my future development work, I would like to incorporate the agile processes of daily standups, sprint planning, and retrospectives as I believe these are great for collaboration, communication, and transparency. I also would love to incorporate backlog grooming, as regualr refinement and reprioritizing task based on user feedback and evolving goals is super important to a successful product. I also think that user stories and gathering requirements is the base structure to a project. Automate testing and deployment is also great to incorporate to catch bugs early and ship confidently!

# What does it mean to be a good team member in software development?
Being a good team member in software development means being communicative; sharing progress, asking for help, providing assistance, giving constructive feedback, and collaboration. Being reliable; delivering what you commit to, and owning your work and your role. Being empathetic; understanding temmates perspectives and being open minded, being able to understand everyone part of a team rather their stakeholders, testers, designers, analysts, a product owner, project manager. Being adaptable; being open to change and evolving with the project or team, whether its pivoting in project scope or a new tool in the stack. Lastly, being supportive; teamwork and collaboration stretches a long way in a projects success, offering assitance, helping others with bugs, partaking in all team events and exceling in your role! 
